I wanna take just a moment now that
we've talked about object literals and
explain a common mistake or misconception
that people have when it comes to JSON.
JSON, if you haven't heard of it before,
stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
It's inspired by object literal
syntax in JavaScript and
so it's called JavaScript object notation.
And it looks an awful lot
like object literal syntax.
But a common mistake is to think that
they're the exact same thing and
then run across some errors.
Lets take a quick look.
So I have my blank app.JS file again.
JavaScript object notation is inspired by
the object literal notation in JavaScript.
So if I was to create
an object literal and
lets say it had a couple of properties,
so I'm creating an object with
with those curly braces I'm making
a property called first name, it's Mary.
A comma and another property and I'll
just make it a boolean is a programmer.
All right so this is completely
valid JavaScript, I can output this.
And I can go here, refresh.
And there's my object,
first name and is a programmer.
We've already seen this.
So here's what happened.
In previous years,
data was sent over the internet in various
formats and the format that was
landed upon for a while was xml.
So, just to show what that looks like,
I might have had an object.
This isn't valid JavaScript, I'm just
showing the example I might have sent this
across the wire,
across the internet formatted like this.
Where I had tags surrounding the data
and then the server would get this
information and be able to parse it out.
Now that's fine but
the problem is when you're
dealing with download times,
how fast something is and how much data,
how much bandwidth are you using,
this is a lot of extra
unnecessary characters that make the
amount of data that you're sending larger.
Just to send one piece of data I'm
actually sending the property name twice.
That's a huge amount of
wasted download bandwidth
if you were dealing with a lot of data.
So what people did was looked at
the JavaScript object notation and
say, hey, that would make
a really great way to send data
across the Internet instead
of sending it in this format.
Why don't we make a string that
looks something like this?
And so now a days we pretty much
send data via the JSON format.
Its just a string of data but
it looks like object literal syntax
except for some differences.
For example, properties have to be
wrapped in quotes so I'll just wrap
my property names in quotes and
make all the quotes consistent and
this is valid object literal syntax.
Your properties can be wrapped in quotes
in JavaScript object literal
notation in that syntax.
This is just fine.
But they have to be
wrapped in quotes in JSON.
So if you have something that says,
well I parse JSON, some program,
some library that you're using on PHP or
ASP.NET or some server technology,
when it says I parse JSON, it expects
the properties to be wrapped in quotes.
So JSON is technically a subset
of the object literal syntax.
Meaning that anything that is JSON valid
is also valid JavaScript
object literal syntax.
But not all object literal
syntax is valid JSON.
So JSON has stricter rules
about what it can be.
So JSON, JavaScript Object Notation,
isn't really a part of JavaScript.
But because it's so popular and
because it's so easy for
JavaScript to understand what this is,
JavaScript does come with some built in
functionality to transfer between the two.
So, for any object I can do JSON,
this is a built in feature in
JavaScript, .stringify.
Give it that object.
And it will convert
the object to a JSON string.
And, if I have a string that's JSON,
so let me make this a string,
I'll wrap it in single quotes.
Note that I'm using double
quotes here inside and
single quotes on the outside so that
they don't collide and cause an error.
But, I can then do JSON.parse,
and it will take a string.
Let's just say this is my jsonValue.
It will take a string and
convert it to a JavaScript object.
So, let's console.log the jsonValue.
So here I'm taking
an object in JavaScript and
stringifying it so
it becomes JSON syntax as a string and
maybe something I could send to
a server or something like that.
And in this case I'm taking
a string that's proper JSON and
converting it back to an object.
So, what should I see in the console?
A string, and then the object.
And notice what it did.
It wrapped those property names in quotes,
because that's valid JSON.
So I'm just showing this because people
get confused about object literal
versus JSON string.
They're two different things.
JavaScript does have some utilities to
allow you to transfer between the two.
But don't get them confused
as if they're the same thing.
JSON is more strict and
requires quotes around the names,
doesn't let you put functions
as values and things like that.
However it does look very similar and
has made for a really easy transition
when pushing data from the client
in a browser to the server.
Or in the case of things like Node.js,
where you're running JavaScript on the
server, accepting data in a JSON format.
All right, so
that's object literals in JSON.